# Changelog
All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]
### Added
- Changed internal interacation between the on disk YAML format and the in memory
  format. This enables the command line options to be autogenerated from the datastructures.
  Also this keeps the options for profiles and node set/add commands in strict sync.
- Added `node edit/export/import` where the edit command exposes the YAML config for the
  given nodes in an editor. Nodes can also be added with this command. The export command
  simply drops the YAML config for the given nodes. With the import command nodes can be
  imported as YAML or as a CSV file. The CSV file must havr a header in where the first field
  must always be the nodename, the rest of the fields are the same as the long commandline
  options. Network device must have the form net.$NETNAME.$NETOPTION, which would e.g. be
  net.default.ipaddr
- The default value (like kernel args) are no read in from the configuration file
  default.conf. If this file couldn't be read built in default values will be used.
- Template files for NetworkManager are now present in the wwinit overlay. A interface must
  have the type ethernet or infiniband that these will be brought up by NetworkManager
- Listings of container via `wwctl container list` will now show the creation,modification
  date and the size.
- Initial cut of the warewulf API. See https://github.com/hpcng/warewulf/pull/471

### Bug fixes
- For the connections of `wwctl ssh` the primary interface will be used
- Fixed kernel version in `wwctl container show`
- remove the container image and not only the rootfs dir  on delete
- include and exclude handling for container were fixed

## [4.3.0] 2022-06-25
### Added
- All configurations files for the host (/etc/exports, /etc/dhcpd.conf, /etc/hosts) are now
  populated from the (OVERLAYDIR/host/etc/{exports|dhcpd|hosts}.ww . Also other configuration
  files like prometheus.yml.ww or slurm.conf.ww which depend on the cluster nodes can be
  placed. Also the new templated functions {{ abort }}, {{ IncludeBlock }} abd {{ no_backup }}
  are allowed now.
- nodes and profiles can now have multiple system and runtime overlays, as a comma separated list.
  The overlays of the profile and the nodes are combined.
- simple ipv6 support is now enabled. In `warewulf.conf` the option `ipaddr6`/`Ipv6net` must
  be set to enable ipv6. If enabled on of these options is set a node will get a derived
  ipv6 in the scheme `ipv6net:ipaddr4`. This address can also be overwritten for every
  node
- Multiple files can now created from a single `template.ww` file with the `{{ file FILENAME }}`
  command in the template. The command is expanded to the magic template command
  `{{ /* file FILENAME */}}` which is picked up by wwctl and everything which comes after this
  magic comment will be written to the file `FILENAME`. This mechanism is leveraged in the
  configuration files for the network, see `ifcfg.xml.ww` and `ifcgf.ww`.
- Networks can now have arbitrary keys value pairs in the profiles and on the node, so that
  things like bridges and mtu sizes can be set
- oci container tar balls can be imported with the 'file://$PATH' scheme
- uids and gids of a container can now get synced at import time, so that at least users with the
  same name have the same uid. This is not necessarily needed for warewulf, but services like
  munge.
### Changed
- Provision interface is not tied to 'eth0' any more. The provision interface must be have the
  'primary' flag now. The file `nodes.conf' must be changed accordingly.
- the provisioning network is now called primary and not default
- Creating of '/etc/exports' can now be disabled, so that `wwctl configure -a` wont overwrite
  a existing '/etc/exports'.
- The yaml format for nodes has now sub-keys for ipmi and kernel, old nodes.conf files have to
  to be changed accordingly
- host overlays can globaly disbaled, but are enabled per default
- `wwctl overlay build -H` will only build the overlays which are assigned to the nodes
### Fixed
- GID is no longer changed to `0` when unspecified during chown
- Proper handling of uid/gid arguments during `wwctl overlay chown`
- /etc/warewulf/excludes stored in the container definition is now
  processed correctly, also excluding the contents of an excluded
  directory automatically.


## [4.1.0] - 2021-07-29
### Added
- Support for ARM nodes
- firewalld service file for warewulfd
- `-y` option to skip "Are you sure" queries
- `wwctl kernel delete` command
- `wwctl vnfs` alias for `wwctl container`
- Support for authenticated OCI registries
- warewulfd can reload config on SIGHUP and when the config file changes
- Node database index to improve lookup speeds
- Kernels and containers can be imported from a chroot subdirectory
- Systemd service file

### Changed
- `wwctl node list` output beautification
- Log timestamps are more precise
- PID file and log files are now in `/var/run` and `/var/log`, respectively
- `make install` no longer overwrites preexisting configuration files
- Kernel modules and overlays are now compressed
- `rootfstype` now uses `rootfs` in default kernel arguments
- iPXE binaries updated
- Installed container directory is deleted when import fails
- Default iPXE script now reboots erroring nodes every 15 seconds
- Only open `/etc/hosts` when writing

### Removed
- `wwctl configure` `--persist` flags have been removed. `configure` commands persist changes by default unless `--show` is used
- In-repository documentation: has been moved to it's own repository

### Fixed
- Importing containers from directory
- Debug log verbosity option takes precedence over verbose option
- `wwctl node list -n` output is formatted corectly
- Container names can contain an underscore
- `wwctl overlay build --all` does not require an argument
- specfile date format works with older versions of rpmbuild
- Use SystemOverlay when building system overlay
- dhcpd template now references correct wwctl subcommand
- `wwctl node set kernelargs` and `wwctl profile set kernelargs` change kernel arguments
