.TH "WAREWULF.CONF" "5"

.SH NAME

warewulf.conf \- Warewulf server configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBwarewulf.conf\fP is the main configuration file for the Warewulf
server daemon and defines the configuration for its service
dependencies, including dhcp, tftp, and nfs.
.LP
warewulf.conf is defined using YAML document markup syntax.

.SH PARAMETERS
.LP
The configuration parameters available include:

.TP
\fBWW_INTERNAL\fP
Specifies the version of the configuration file format. The current
version is 43.
.IP

.TP
\fBipaddr\fP
This is the control node's networking interface connecting to the
cluster's private network. This configuration must match the host's
network IP address for the cluster's private interface.
.IP

.TP
\fBipaddr6\fP
This is the control node's networking interface connecting to the
cluster's IPv6 private network. This configuration must match the
host's network IP address for the cluster's private interface.
.IP

.TP
\fBnetwork\fP
The subnet address for the cluster's private network, used in
conjunction with the netmask parameter.
.IP

.TP
\fBnetmask\fP
Similar to the ipaddr, this is the subnet mask for the cluster's
private network and it must also match the host's subnet mask for the
cluster's private interface.
.IP

.SS WAREWULF
.LP
The \fBwarewulf\fP parameter is a map of individual sub-parameters
which configure Warewulf specifically. (See the \fBEXAMPLE\fP section
for overall structure.)

.TP
\fBport\fP

This is the port that the Warewulf web server will be listening on. It
is recommended not to change this so there is no misalignment with
node's expectations of how to contact the Warewulf service.

Default: 9983
.IP

.TP
\fBsecure\fP

When true, this limits the Warewulf server to only respond to runtime
overlay requests originating from a privileged port. This prevents
non-root users from requesting the runtime overlay, which may contain
sensitive information.

When true, wwclient uses TCP port 987.

Changing this option requires rebuilding node overlays and rebooting
compute nodes, to configure them to use a privileged port.

Default: true
.IP

.TP
\fBupdate interval\fP

The frequency (in seconds) with which wwclient will fetch its
configuration (e.g., its overlays) from the Warewulf server.

Default: 60
.IP

.TP
\fBautobuild overlays\fP

When true, overlays will be automatically rebuilt when indicated by
changes to nodes, profiles, and overlays.

Default: true
.IP

.TP
\fBhost overlay\fP

Host overlays are used to configure dependent services on the Warewulf
server. When disabled, these services' configuration files will not be
updated by \fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP.

Default: true
.IP

.TP
\fBsyslog\fP

When true, Warewulf server logs are written to syslog, rather than a
local file.

When false, Warewulf server logs are written to
`/var/log/warewulfd.log'.

Default: false
.IP

.TP
\fBdatastore\fP

The location where Warewulf caches and stores OCI data.

Default: /var/lib/warewulf
.IP

.SS DHCP
.LP
The \fBdhcp\fP parameter is a map of individual sub-parameters which
inform how \fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP should configure the DHCP
service. (See the \fBEXAMPLE\fP section for overall structure.)

.TP
\fBenabled\fP

When false, the DHCP service will not be configured by
\fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP.

Default: true
.IP

.TP
\fBrange start\fP

An IP address which defines the start of a dynamic address range which
can be used when configuring the DHCP service. Provided to the host
overlay as the variable \fB$.Dhcp.RangeStart\fP, typically for use in
generating dhcpd.conf or similar.

Templates typically expect this range to be within the \fBnetwork\fP
defined above.
.IP

.TP
\fBrange end\fP

An IP address which defines the end of a dynamic address range which
can be used when configuring the DHCP service. Provided to the host
overlay as the variable \fB$.Dhcp.RangeEnd\fP, typically for use in
generating dhcpd.conf or similar.

Templates typically expect this range to be within the \fBnetwork\fP
defined above.
.IP

.TP
\fBsystemd name\fP

The systemd unit name which will be used to (re)start the DHCP service
during \fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP, if necessary.

Default: dhcpd
.IP

.SS TFTP
.LP
The \fBtftp\fP parameter is a map of individual sub-parameters which
inform how \fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP should configure the TFTP
service. (See the \fBEXAMPLE\fP section for overall structure.)

.TP
\fBenabled\fP

When false, the TFTP service will not be configured by
\fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP.

Default: true
.IP

.TP
\fBsystemd name\fP

The systemd unit name which will be used to (re)start the TFTP service
during \fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP, if necessary.

Default: tftp
.IP

.SS NFS
.LP
The nfs parameter is a map of individual sub-parameters which inform
how \fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP should configure the NFS service. (See
the \fBEXAMPLE\fP section for overall structure.)

.TP
\fBenabled\fP

When false, the NFS service will not be configured by
\fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP.

Default: true
.IP

.TP
\fBexport paths\fP

A list of paths to be exported by the NFS service and, optionally, to
be automatically mounted on compute nodes. Each item in the list is,
itself, a map of parameters for the mount. (See the \fBEXAMPLE\fP
section for overall structure.)

.RS
.TP
\fBpath\fP

The path on the server to be exported via the NFS service. Provided to
the host overlay as the variable \fB.Nfs.ExportsExtended[].Path\fP,
typically for use in generating /etc/exports or similar.
.IP

.TP
\fBexport options\fP

The NFS export options to use when exporting the given \fBpath\fP via
the NFS service. Provided to the host overlay as the variable
\fB.Nfs.ExportsExtended[].ExportOptions\fP, typically for use in
generating /etc/exports or similar.

Default: rw,sync,no_subtree_check
.IP

.TP
\fBmount options\fP

The NFS mount options to use when mounting the given \fBpath\fP on
compute nodes via the NFS service. Provided to the compute node's
overlays as the variable \fB.Nfs.ExportsExtended[].MountOptions\fP,
typically for use in generating /etc/fstab or similar.

Default: defaults
.IP

.TP
\fBmount\fP

If true, mount the NFS share automatically on compute nodes. Provided
to the compute node's overlays as the variable
\fB.Nfs.ExportsExtended[].Mount\fP, typically for use in generating
/etc/fstab or similar.

Default: true
.IP
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBsystemd name\fP

The systemd unit name which will be used to (re)start the NFS service
during \fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP, if necessary.

Default: nfsd
.IP

.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
A sample configuration file for a typical deployment, with all
dependent services enabled.

.EX
WW_INTERNAL: 43
ipaddr: 10.0.0.1
network: 10.0.0.0
netmask: 255.255.0.0
warewulf:
  port: 9873
  secure: false
  update interval: 60
  autobuild overlays: true
  host overlay: true
  syslog: false
  datastore: ""
dhcp:
  enabled: true
  range start: 10.0.0.10
  range end: 10.0.0.99
  systemd name: dhcpd
tftp:
  enabled: true
  systemd name: tftp
nfs:
  enabled: true
  export paths:
  - path: /home
    export options: rw,sync
    mount options: defaults
    mount: true
  - path: /opt
    export options: ro,sync,no_root_squash
    mount options: defaults
    mount: true
  systemd name: nfs-server
.EE

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBwwctl\-server(1)\fP, \fBwwctl-configure(1)\fP, \fBnodes.conf(5)\fP
