The Warewulf development team is happy to release Warewulf version 4.3.0!

# Changes
- The kernel is now part of the container by default which means the entire kernel and user space stack can be built, maintained, and distributed within a single container. It is still possible to override a specific kernel using the `--kerneloverride` option to nodes and profiles.
- Network interfaces are no longer named as the "device name", but rather have a free from string as the network name with the initial name being "default".
- Creating of '/etc/exports' can now be disabled, so that `wwctl configure -a` wont overwrite  a existing '/etc/exports'.
- All configurations files for the host (/etc/exports, /etc/dhcpd.conf, /etc/hosts) are now  populated from the `host` overlay. Also other configuration  files like `prometheus.yml.ww` or `slurm.conf.ww` which depend on the cluster nodes can be  placed there.
- New template functions now exist: `{{ abort }}`, `{{ IncludeBlock }}` and `{{ no_backup }}` are now supported.
- Nodes can now have multiple system and runtime overlays, as a comma separated list. 
- Simple ipv6 support is now enabled. In `warewulf.conf` the option `ipaddr6`/`Ipv6net` must be set to enable ipv6.
- Multiple files can now be created from a single template overlay file with the `{{ file FILENAME }}` command in the template. The command is expanded to the magic template command `{{ /* file FILENAME */}}` which is picked up by wwctl and everything which comes after this magic comment will be written to the file `FILENAME`. This mechanism is leveraged in the configuration files for the network, see `ifcfg.xml.ww` and `ifcgf.ww`.
- Networks can now have arbitrary keys value pairs in the profiles and on the node, so that things like bridges and mtu sizes can be set
- The yaml format for nodes has now sub-keys for ipmi and kernel, old nodes.conf files have to be changed accordingly
- uids and gids of a container now get synced at import time, so that at least users with the same name have the same uid. This is not necessarily needed for warewulf, but services like munge.
- Refactoring of the Warewulf daemon to support better concurrency and building overlays on the fly.

If you have any problems please join our Slack channel and/or submit an issue here: https://github.com/hpcng/warewulf/issues

This is also release has also breaking changes for the configuration files, as the format for the network devices in the `nodes.conf` has changed, Also `warewulf.conf` has a new way to configure the nfs exports on the master node and separate sections for the ipmi and kernel configs.

_note: From this release on, the main branch will only get bug fixes until the next release. Development will happen in the develop branch._ 

