Warewulf v4.5.3 includes additional functionality, documentation, usability improvements, and bugfixes. This includes an initial preview of 2-stage boot support based on dracut; significant efficiency improvements for "syncuser"; a remedy for a regression that affected the generation of ssh host keys during initial configuration; and improved handling of temporary files generated during container shell and exec commands.

# Added

- Initial support for dracut-based 2-stage boot. See https://warewulf.org/docs/v4.5.x/contents/boot-management.html#booting-with-dracut for more information.
  - Add `stage=initramfs` to warewulfd provision to serve initramfs from container image. #1115
  - Add `warewulf-dracut` package to support building Warewulf-compatible initramfs images with dracut. #1115
  - Add iPXE template `dracut.ipxe` to boot a dracut initramfs. #1115
  - Add dracut menuentry to `grub.cfg.ww` to boot a dracut initramfs. #1115
  - Add `.NetDevs` variable to iPXE and GRUB templates, similar to overlay templates. #1115
  - Add `.Tags` variable to iPXE and GRUB templates, similar to overlay templates. #1115

# Changed

- `wwctl container import` now only runs syncuser if explicitly requested. #1212
- Improved detection of SELinux capable root fs #1093

# Fixed

- Block unprivileged requests for arbitrary overlays in secure mode. #1215
- Fix the issue that warewulf.conf parse does not support CIDR format. #1130
- Reduce the number of times syncuser walks the container file system. #1209
- Create ssh keys when calling `wwctl configure --all` #1250
- Create temporary overlayfs directories alongside container rootfs and remove them after use #1180

# Documentation

- Add examples for building overlays in parallel to documentation. (https://warewulf.org/docs/v4.5.x/contents/overlays.html#build)
- Replace reference to docusaurus with Sphinx (https://warewulf.org/docs/v4.5.x/contributing/documentation.html#documentation)
- Fix installation docs to use github.com/warewulf instead of github.com/hpcng. #1219 (https://warewulf.org/docs/v4.5.x/contents/installation.html)

# Dependencies

- Bump golang.org/x/net from 0.22.0 to 0.23.0. #1223
