Warewulf v4.5.8 simplifies the "wwinit" boot process for SELinux and configures tmpfs to spread the node image across all available NUMA nodes. It also improves the detection of kernels in the container image to more reliably detect the newest available kernel and to avoid debug / rescue kernels.

This release also includes additional bug fixes and documentation improvements.

Contributors for this release:

- "Jason" Xu Yang (CIQ)
- Elmar Pruesse (National Jewish Health)
- Tobias Ribizel
- Jonathon Anderson (CIQ)
- Christian Goll (Suse)
- Brandon Biggs (INL)

The full changelog is included below.

# Known issues

- [wwctl container import behaves differently for directories than for images](https://github.com/warewulf/warewulf/issues/1447)

# Added

- Added `--syncuser` flag to `wwctl container shell`. #1358
- Added a troubleshooting guide. #1234
- Added documentation about `rootfstype=ramfs` for SELinux support. #1001
- Added workaround documentation for importing containers with sockets. #892
- Added documentation for building iPXE locally. #1114
- Documented that ignition is not available for Rocky Linux 8. #1373, #1272
- Additional help text when container `RunDir` already exists. #1389

# Changed

- Interleave tmpfs across all available NUMA nodes. #1347, #1348
- Syncuser watches for changes in mtime rather than ctime. #1358
- Change the default permissions for provisioned overlay images to `0750` (dirs) and `0660` (files). #1388

# Fixed

- Return an error during `wwctl container import` if the archive filename includes a colon. #1371
- Correctly extract smbios asset key during GRUB boot. #1291
- Refactor of `wwinit/init` to more properly address rootfs options. #1098
- Fix autodetected kernel sorting and filtering. #1332
- Avoid a panic during container import. #1244
- Make sure that tftp files have unmasked permissions at creation time. #674
- Fix "onboot" behavior for NetworkManager, Debian networking, and Suse wicked. #1278
- Clarified missing steps in Enterprise Linux quickstart. #1179
