Warewulf v4.5.1 is primarily a bugfix and dependency update release.

Updates to dependencies broke compatibility with CentOS 7, so we have also dropped support for CentOS 7 (which, itself, goes EOL at the end of June) in this release. (This only affects the ability to run the Warewulf server on CentOS 7: Warewulf can still provision compute node images running CentOS 7.)

# Added

- Document warewulf.conf:paths. #635
- New "Overlay" template variable contains the name of the overlay being built. #1052  

# Changed

- Update the glossary. #819
- Upgrade the golang version to 1.20.
- Bump github.com/opencontainers/umoci to 0.4.7
- Bump github.com/containers/image/v5 to 5.30.0
- Bump github.com/docker/docker to 25.0.5+incompatible
- Bump github.com/go-jose/go-jose/v3 to 3.0.3
- Bump gopkg.in/go-jose/go-jose.v2 to 2.6.3
- Bump github.com/opencontainers/runc to 1.1.12
- Dynamically calculate version and release from Git. #1162
- Update quickstarts to configure firewalld for dhcp. #1133
- Omit building the API on EL7. #1171
- Syncuser only walks the file system if it is going to write. #1207

# Fixed

- Fix `wwctl profile list -a` format when kernerargs are set.
- Don't attempt to rebuild protocol buffers in offline mode. #1155
- Fix Suse package by moving yq command to `%install` section. #1169
- Fix a rendering bug in the documentation for GRUB boot support. #1132
- Fix a locking issue with concurrent read/writes for node status. #1174
- Fix shim and grub detection for aarch64. #1145
- wwctl [profile|node] list -a now handles slices correclty. #1113
- Fix parsing of /etc/group during syncuser. #1202
