Warewulf v4.5.7 fixes the ability to override overlay files configured in profiles with overlays configured per-node; fixes a template processing bug bug in development-time overlay rendering; and improves the preview dracut-based boot process to better support a "secure" boot process.

It also adds the ability to temporarily copy files into containers for possible modification during `wwctl container exec` and `wwctl container shell.`

**Dracut booting in v4.5.7 breaks compatibility with earlier versions of `warewulf-dracut`.** To continue using dracut booting with Warewulf v4.5.7, update `warewulf-dracut` in the container image and re-build an initramfs inside the container. ([docs][1])

[1]: https://warewulf.org/docs/v4.5.x/contents/boot-management.html#booting-with-dracut

Contributors:

* Josh Burks (Arizona State University)
* Jonathon Anderson (CIQ)
* Elmar Pruessee (National Jewish Health)
* Christian Goll (Suse)
* "Jason" Xu Yang (CIQ)
* Tobias Poschwatta (Zuse Institute Berlin)

The full changelog is below:

# Added

- Added option for wwclient port number. #1349
- Additional helper directions during syncuser conflict. #1359
- Add `:copy` suffix to `wwctl container exec --bind` to temporarily copy files into the node image. #1365

# Changed

- Added a link to an example SELinux-enabled node image in documentation. #1305
- Refine error handling for `wwctl configure`. #1273
- Updated dracut guidance for building initramfs. #1369

# Fixed

- Fixed application of node overlays such that they override overlapping files from profile overlays. #1259
- Prevent overlays from being improperly used as format strings during `wwctl overlay show --render`. #1363
- Fix dracut booting with secure mode. #1261
