Warewulf v4.6.0rc3 is the third release candidate for the upcoming v4.6.0, and is expected to be the last release candidate before the final release. Warewulf v4.6.0 is a major release that includes many significant enhancements, fixes, and changes.

This third release candidate fixes many additional bugs and makes additional expected changes. The full changelog is included below.

For more information regarding changes in v4.6.0, see the [v4.6.0rc1](https://github.com/warewulf/warewulf/releases/tag/v4.6.0rc1) and [v4.6.0rc2](https://github.com/warewulf/warewulf/releases/tag/v4.6.0rc2) releases.

# Added

- Added missing hostlist support for `wwctl node` and `wwctl overlay build`. #1635
- Added support for comma-separated hostlist patterns. #1635
- Added default value for `warewulf.conf:dhcp.template`. #1725
- Added `UniqueField` template function. #829
- Added `wwctl image build --syncuser`. #1321
- Added support for a DNSSEARCH netdev tag in network configuration overlays. #1256
- Added `WW_HISTFILE` to control shell history location during `wwctl image shell`. #1732
- Added target help in Makefile. #1740
- Added fstab mounts for `/home` and `/opt` to initial default profile. #1744
- Add support for an `IPXEMenuEntry` tag to select the boot method during iPXE.

# Changed

- Hide internal `wwctl completion` and `wwctl genconfig` commands. #1716
- Make .ww suffix optional during `wwctl overlay show --render`. #649
- DHCP template generates as much of the subnet and range definition as possible. #1469
- Updated overlay flags to `wwctl <node|profile> <add|set> [--runtime-overlays|--system-overlays]`. #1495
- syncuser overlay reads host passwd and group database from sysconfdir. #1736
- syncuser overlay skips duplicate users and groups in passwd and group databases. #829
- `wwctl image syncuser --write` is true by default. #1736
- Update syncuser documentation. #1736
- Update PS1 during `wwctl image shell` to include working directory by default,
  and to include `PS1` from the environment if present. #1245
- DHCP template generates as much of the subnet and range definition as possible. #1469
- Updated overlay flags to `wwctl <node|profile> <add|set> [--runtime-overlays|--system-overlays]`. #1495
- Added logging and updated output during iPXE and GRUB. #1156
- Defined a menu for iPXE. #1156
- Added logging to wwinit scripts. #1156
- Renamed /warewulf/wwinit to /warewulf/prescripts. #1156
- Display auto-detected kernel version during iPXE and GRUB. #1742
- Reduced default verbosity of `wwctl overlay build`.

# Fixed

- Fixed detection of overlay files in `wwctl overlay list --long`.
- Fixed panics in `wwctl node sensors` and `wwctl node console` when ipmi not configured.
- Fixed completions for `wwctl` commands.
- Return "" when NetDev.IpCIDR is empty.
- Updated `wwctl node export` to include node IDs. #1718
- Don't add "default" profile to new nodes if it does not exist. #1721
- Make DHCP range optional.
- Don't use DHCP for interfaces attached to a bond. #1743
- Wait until ignition has completed before trying to mount.
- Fix timeout problem for wwclient. #1741
- Fixed default "true" state of NetDev.OnBoot. #1754
- Port NFS mounts during `wwctl upgrade nodes` before applying defaults. #1758

# Removed

- Removed partial support for regex searches in node and profile lists. #1635
- Remove redundant `wwctl genconfig completions` command. #1716
- Remove syncuser warning messages in `wwctl` that assume its use. #1321
- Remove syncuser from the list of default runtime overlays. #1322
- Removed check for "discoverable" profiles during `wwctl upgrade nodes`.
- Removed `dracut.ipxe` template. (Use `default.ipxe` and set tag `IPXEMenuEntry=dracut`.)
