==================
Provisioning disks
==================

As a tech preview, Warewulf provides structures to define disks, partitions, and
file systems. These structures can generate a configuration for `Ignition`_ to
provision partitions and file systems dynamically on cluster nodes, or with
sfdisk, mkfs, and mkswap during boot.

.. _Ignition: https://coreos.github.io/ignition/

Ignition can, for example, create ``swap`` partitions or ``/scratch`` file
systems.

Requirements
============

Partition and file system creation requires both ``ignition`` and ``sgdisk`` to
be installed in the image.

Rocky Linux
-----------

.. code-block:: shell

   dnf install ignition gdisk

.. note::

   Packages for Ignition are not currently available for Rocky Linux 8, but it
   is available for Rocky Linux 9 as part of "appstream."

openSuse Leap
-------------

.. code-block:: shell

   zypper install ignition gptfdisk

Disks and partitions
====================

A node or profile can have several disks. Each disk is identified by the path to
its block device. Each disk holds a map to its partitions and a ``bool`` switch
to indicate if an existing, non-matching partition table should be overwritten.

Each partition is identified by its label. The partition number can be omitted,
but specifying it is recommended as Ignition may fail without it. Partition
sizes should also be set (specified in MiB), except for the last partition: if
no size is given, the maximum available size is used. Each partition has the
switches ``should_exist`` and ``wipe_partition_entry`` which control the
partition creation process (via the ``--partcreate`` and ``--partwipe`` flags).
When omitting a partition number the ``wipe_partition_entry`` should be true, as
this allows ignition to replace the existing partition.

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl node set n1 \
     --diskname /dev/vda --diskwipe \
     --partname scratch --partcreate --partwipe --partnumber 1

File systems
============

File systems are identified by their underlying block device, preferably using
the ``/dev/by-partlabel`` format. Except for a ``swap`` partition, an absolute
path for the mount point must be specified for each file system. Depending on
the image used, valid formats are ``btrfs``, ``ext3``, ``ext4``, and ``xfs``.
Each file system has the switch ``wipe_filesystem`` to control whether an
existing file system is wiped.

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl node set n1 \
     --diskname /dev/vda --partname scratch \
     --fsname scratch --fsformat btrfs --fspath /scratch

Boot-time configuration
=======================

Ignition uses systemd, as the underlying ``sgdisk`` command relies on dbus
notifications.


1. ``ignition-disks-ww4.service`` uses Ignition to create the specified
   partitions and file systems.

2. ``ww4-disks.target`` depends on a matching ``.mount`` unit for each
   mounted file system.
   
3. Each ``.mount`` creates the necessary mount points in the root file system
   and mounts the provisioned file systems during boot.

These services and mount units are generated by the ``ignition`` overlay and
depend on the existence of the file ``/warewulf/ignition.json``, also generated
by the ``ignition`` overlay.

Example disk configurations
===========================

This command formats a btrfs file system on a "scratch" partition of
"vda" and mounts it at ``/scratch``.

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl node set n1 \
     --diskname /dev/vda --diskwipe \
     --partname scratch --partcreate --partnumber 1 \
     --fsname scratch --fsformat btrfs --fspath /scratch

This command adds a swap partition to the "vda" disk.

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl node set n1 \
     --diskname /dev/vda \
     --partname swap --partsize=1024 --partnumber 2 \
     --fsname swap --fsformat swap --fspath swap

Re-using or wiping disks
========================

For empty disks the desired configuration is created and the filesystems are
mounted. If partitions or file systems already exist on the disk, ``ignition``
tries to reuse existing file systems by default.

To ignore existing file systems and provision fresh file systems on each boot,
specify the ``--fswipe`` flag for that filesystem, and ``--diskwipe`` for the
disk, as necessary.

If you would like to re-use existing partitions but want to replace existing
file systems once, you may

* wipe the existing data with tools like ``wipefs`` or ``dd`` [#]_; or
* set the ``--fswipe`` flag and remove it after one reboot.

.. [#] With ``wipefs`` you have to remove the filesystem *and* partition
    information. E.g., use ``wipefs -fa /dev/vda*`` to remove all file system
    information and partition information.

See the `upstream ignition documentation`_ for additional information.

.. _upstream ignition documentation: https://coreos.github.io/ignition/operator-notes/#filesystem-reuse-semantics


.. _swap-and-image-memory:

Swap and image memory usage
===========================

Warewulf images run entirely in memory. Configuring a local swap partition
can allow the kernel to reclaim that RAM for applications — but only under the
right conditions. Whether swap can free image memory depends on which root
filesystem type the node uses.

tmpfs root
----------

When the root filesystem is ``tmpfs`` (the default for two-stage dracut boot, or
when ``--root=tmpfs`` is set explicitly), the image lives in the page cache.
The Linux kernel can swap ``tmpfs`` pages to a local swap device exactly as it
would any other anonymous memory. Adding swap therefore lets the kernel evict
cold image pages to disk and reclaim that RAM for running workloads.

This is the recommended configuration for nodes with large images relative to
available RAM.

initramfs root (single-stage boot default)
------------------------------------------

The default single-stage boot places the image in an ``initramfs`` root, which
is an instance of ``ramfs``. Unlike ``tmpfs``, ``ramfs`` pages are pinned in
memory: the kernel will never swap them out. Configuring swap on a node with an
``initramfs`` root will **not** free any memory used by the image.

If you are using single-stage boot and want swap to help with image memory,
switch to ``tmpfs`` root first:

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl profile set default --root=tmpfs

For background on ``tmpfs`` NUMA interleaving and size limits, see
:ref:`tmpfs-and-numa`.

.. note::

   Two-stage dracut boot always uses ``tmpfs`` regardless of the ``--root``
   setting. If you are already using dracut, no additional root configuration
   is needed.

Example: configuring swap to reclaim image memory
--------------------------------------------------

This example provisions a swap partition on the local disk of each node and
activates it at boot, enabling the kernel to reclaim RAM occupied by the node
image.

**1. Configure tmpfs root** (skip if using two-stage dracut boot):

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl profile set default --root=tmpfs

**2. Add a swap partition** to the node or profile disk configuration. This
example adds an 8 GiB swap partition as the first partition of ``/dev/vda``:

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl profile set default \
     --diskname /dev/vda --diskwipe \
     --partname swap --partcreate --partnumber 1 --partsize=8192 \
     --fsname swap --fsformat swap --fspath swap

**3. Add the required overlays** to the system overlay so that the swap
partition is formatted and activated at boot. The ``-O`` / ``--system-overlays``
flag replaces the entire overlay list, so include any overlays already
configured for the profile. Use Ignition (recommended for Rocky Linux 9 and
openSUSE):

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl profile set default \
     -O wwinit,wwclient,fstab,hostname,ssh.host_keys,systemd.netname,NetworkManager,ignition,systemd.swap

Or, for systems without Ignition (e.g., Rocky Linux 8), use the ``sfdisk`` and
``mkswap`` overlays instead:

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl profile set default \
     -O wwinit,wwclient,fstab,hostname,ssh.host_keys,systemd.netname,NetworkManager,sfdisk,mkswap,systemd.swap

**4. Rebuild the dracut initramfs** with the tools needed to provision the disk
during the two-stage boot (skip for single-stage boot):

.. code-block:: shell

   # Ignition path
   wwctl image exec rockylinux-9 -- /usr/bin/dracut --force --no-hostonly \
     --add wwinit --add ignition --regenerate-all

   # sfdisk/mkswap path
   wwctl image exec rockylinux-8 -- /usr/bin/dracut --force --no-hostonly \
     --add wwinit --install sfdisk --install blockdev --install udevadm \
     --install mkswap --regenerate-all

**5. Reboot nodes** to apply the new configuration.

Verifying swap is active
------------------------

After reboot, confirm that the swap device is active:

.. code-block:: shell

   swapon --show

Then check the overall memory picture with ``free -h``:

.. code-block:: text

   $ free -h
                  total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
   Mem:            15Gi        12Gi       256Mi       120Mi       2.8Gi       2.8Gi
   Swap:           8.0Gi        0Ki       8.0Gi

At idle, most of the node's RAM is occupied by the image. The ``Swap:`` line
shows the available device but near-zero usage at this point.

Confirming that the image gets swapped out
------------------------------------------

To demonstrate that the kernel evicts image pages to swap when an application
needs memory, first note the image size with ``df -h /``:

.. code-block:: shell

   df -h /

This shows how much tmpfs space the image occupies — that is the amount of RAM
currently holding the image.

Now apply memory pressure using ``stress-ng`` (install it in the OS image if
not already present). The allocation must exceed **available** RAM — not just
total RAM — to force the kernel to evict image pages. Compute the target from
``MemTotal``:

.. code-block:: shell

   stress-ng --vm 1 \
     --vm-bytes $(awk '/MemTotal/{printf "%dM", $2*0.9/1024}' /proc/meminfo) \
     --vm-keep -t 60s &

While ``stress-ng`` is running, observe memory usage:

.. code-block:: shell

   free -h

.. code-block:: text

   $ free -h
                  total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
   Mem:            15Gi        15Gi        32Mi       120Mi       512Mi       192Mi
   Swap:           8.0Gi       4.2Gi       3.8Gi

The ``Swap: used`` value has grown by roughly the size of the image. The
kernel has evicted cold image pages to swap, making that RAM available to the
application. The application can access the full physical memory of the node,
not just what is left over after the image is loaded.

After ``stress-ng`` finishes, the evicted image pages remain on swap until
they are accessed again, so ``free -h`` will continue to show swap usage until
the node is under less pressure and pages are faulted back in as needed.

Moving image pages to swap proactively
--------------------------------------

Rather than simulating a workload, you can instruct the kernel to push image
pages to swap directly. On Linux 6.1 and later with cgroup v2, write the
desired reclaim size to ``memory.reclaim``:

.. code-block:: shell

   # Request that the kernel reclaim up to 4 GiB from the root cgroup
   # (adjust to match your image size shown by df -h /)
   echo "4G" > /sys/fs/cgroup/memory.reclaim

If the kernel cannot reclaim the full requested amount it returns an error:

.. code-block:: text

   -bash: echo: write error: Resource temporarily unavailable

This is expected and benign. It means the kernel reclaimed as much as it could
but the reclaimable pool was exhausted before reaching the target.

The kernel will swap out reclaimable pages until the target is met or exhausted, then stop.
Run ``free -h`` immediately afterwards to see the reduction in ``Mem: used``
and corresponding increase in ``Swap: used``.

This works best when run early in the boot process, before applications start,
when nearly all anonymous memory belongs to the image. To automate it, add a
systemd unit to a custom overlay that runs at ``local-fs.target``:

.. code-block:: ini

   [Unit]
   Description=Reclaim OS image memory to swap
   After=local-fs.target
   ConditionPathExists=/sys/fs/cgroup/memory.reclaim

   [Service]
   Type=oneshot
   ExecStart=/bin/sh -c 'echo "$(df --output=used / | tail -1)K" > /sys/fs/cgroup/memory.reclaim'

   [Install]
   WantedBy=multi-user.target

This reads the actual image size from ``df`` and requests that exact amount be
reclaimed, so it adapts automatically as the image grows or shrinks.

.. _provision to disk:

Provision to disk
=================

*New in Warewulf v4.6.2*

As a tech preview, the Warewulf two-stage boot process can provision the node
image to local storage.

.. warning::

   This functionality is a technology preview and should be used with care. Pay
   specific attention to ``wipeFilesytem`` and similar settings.

.. note::

   Warewulf doesn't install a bootloader to the disk or add UEFI entries. Nodes
   still request an image and configuration from the Warewulf server on every
   boot.

.. note::

   While provisioning to disk should be possible during a single-stage boot, not
   all features are available:

   - Warewulf does not perform hardware detection to ensure that necessary
     kernel modules are loaded prior to init.
   - Warewulf does not load udev to ensure that ``/dev/disk/by-*`` symlinks are
     available prior to init.

With Ignition
-------------

Warewulf needs a prepared file system to deploy the image to. Warewulf can
provision this file system using Ignition. To use Ignition, include ``ignition``
in your system overlay. The ignition overlay provisions disks during init and,
optionally, during the first stage of a two-stage boot. This allows the
root file system to be provisioned before the image is loaded.

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl node set wwnode1 \
     --diskname /dev/vda --diskwipe \
     --partname rootfs --partcreate --partnumber 1 \
     --fsname rootfs --fsformat ext4 --fspath /

In order to allow Dracut to provision the disk, partition, and file system,
Ignition must be included in the Dracut image.

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl image exec rockylinux-9 -- /usr/bin/dracut --force --no-hostonly --add wwinit --add ignition --regenerate-all

The necessary file system may alternatively be prepared out-of-band.

With sfdisk and mkfs
--------------------

Systems that do not have access to Ignition (e.g., Rocky Linux 8) can provision
the root file system using a combination of ``sfdisk`` and ``mkfs``. To use
them, include ``sfdisk`` and ``mkfs`` in your system overlay. The ``sfdisk`` and
``mkfs`` overlays provision disk and file systems during the first stage of a
two-stage boot. This allows the root file system to be provisioned before the
image is loaded.

Configure the ``sfdisk`` and ``mkfs`` overlays using resources:

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl node set wwnode1 \
     --diskname /dev/vda --diskwipe \
     --partname rootfs --partcreate --partnumber 1 \
     --fsname rootfs --fsformat ext4 --fspath /

In order to allow Dracut to provision the disk, partition, and file system, some
additional commands must be included in the Dracut image, depending on which
functionality is used:

- **sfdisk:** writes the partition table

  - **blockdev:** used to re-read the partition table after writing

  - **udevadm:** used to trigger udev events after writing the partition table

- **mkfs:** formats file systems (may also require file-system-specific commands like mkfs.ext4)

  - **mkfs.ext4**, **mkfs.btrfs**, etc: used by mkfs to format specific file systems

  - **wipefs:** used to determine if a file system already exists

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl image exec rockylinux-8 -- /usr/bin/dracut --force --no-hostonly \
     --add wwinit \
     --install sfdisk \
     --install blockdev \
     --install udevadm \
     --install mkfs \
     --install mkfs.ext4 \
     --install wipefs \
     --regenerate-all

Configuring the root device
---------------------------

Set the desired storage device for the image using the ``--root``
parameter.

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl node set wwnode1 --root /dev/disk/by-partlabel/rootfs


Known Problems
--------------

If the partition table on the disk isn't properly readable the command ``sgdisk
--zap-all`` (which is used by Ignition to wipe the partition table) returns with
code ``2``. This is interpreted by Ignition < ``2.16.2`` as an error, and no
partitions or filesystems are created. Since the partition table is still wiped,
partitioning and formatting should succeed on the next boot.
