.. _tpm:

=============================
TPM (Trusted Platform Module)
=============================

Warewulf can utilize a node's Trusted Platform Module (TPM) to securely provision and authenticate nodes. When TPM security is enabled, Warewulf verifies the integrity of the node's boot process and system image before delivering the protected runtime overlay.

Quickstart
==========

To use TPM for node authentication, TLS must be enabled on the Warewulf server.
You can enable TLS in the ``warewulf.conf`` configuration file.

.. code-block:: yaml

   warewulf:
     tls: true

TPM also requires GRUB booting, as it is the only supported method for Secure Boot and is currently the only bootloader where the configuration is measured correctly.
You can enable GRUB booting in the same configuration file:

.. code-block:: yaml

   warewulf:
     grubboot: true

After enabling TLS and GRUB booting, you can enable TPM on a profile or on specific nodes:

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl profile set default --tpm=true
   # OR
   wwctl node set n1 --tpm=true

Image Measurement
=================

Changing the assigned image or overlay configurations is automatically measured by Warewulf and requires no manual interaction. Warewulf transparently updates the expected checksums and measurements on the server, so the node can successfully boot and decrypt its runtime overlay with the new image.

Asset Key vs. TPM
=================

Warewulf supports both Asset Keys and TPM for node authentication, but **TPM overrides the Asset Key**. If a node has both an Asset Key configured and TPM enabled, the TPM authentication and verification process will be used to secure the runtime overlay, and the Asset Key will be ignored for that purpose.

Node Exchange and Resetting TPM
===============================

If a node's hardware is exchanged or replaced, its TPM will change. Because Warewulf stores the expected TPM quote and keys for the node, a hardware replacement will cause the TPM verification to fail. 

To reset the stored TPM data and allow the new hardware to register its new TPM state on the next boot, use the reset command:

.. code-block:: shell

   wwctl node tpm reset n1

Secret Handling
===============

During the provisioning process, the Warewulf server generates a Credential Activation Challenge that contains a secure secret used to unlock the node's runtime overlay. It is important to note that **this secret changes on every reboot**.

The secret is decrypted securely in memory by the node's TPM and is written to disk at ``/warewulf/secret`` with restrictive (0600) permissions. While the node saves its Attestation Key (AK) locally to maintain its identity across reboots, the server issues a newly generated challenge and secret each time the node successfully boots and uploads a valid TPM quote.

.. note::
   **Retrieving the Secret:**
   
   - **On the node:** The decrypted secret can be read directly from the file ``/warewulf/secret``.
   - **On the server:** The expected secret for a node can be retrieved via JSON output from the command line: ``wwctl node tpm list --json n1``.

``wwctl node tpm`` Commands
===========================

Warewulf provides several commands to manage TPM data and status for your nodes:

* ``wwctl node tpm list [pattern]``: Lists the TPM status and data for the specified nodes.
* ``wwctl node tpm verify [pattern]``: Verifies the TPM quotes and event logs against the stored expectations.
* ``wwctl node tpm reset [pattern]``: Resets the TPM state for a node. This is required when the node hardware is replaced.
* ``wwctl node tpm check [FILE]``: Checks a TPM quote from a JSON file generated by ``wwclient --upload-quote``.

Manual TPM Upload (Troubleshooting Only)
========================================

In some troubleshooting scenarios, you may need to manually trigger the client to generate and upload its TPM quote to the server. 

.. warning::

   This is a troubleshooting step only. Under normal operation, the ``wwclient`` automatically handles the quote generation and upload during the boot process.

**Step 1:** To manually upload the quote from a node, run the following command directly on the booted cluster node:

.. code-block:: shell

   wwclient --upload-quote

**Step 2:** After a successful upload, you can manually retrieve and decrypt the challenge to unlock the protected runtime overlay:

.. code-block:: shell

   wwclient --get-challenge
