====================
v4.6.2 Release Notes
====================

v4.6.2 is a regularly-scheduled minor release in the v4.6.x series. It also
includes a preview implementation of the ability to provision the node image to
a local disk.

Significant changes are described below. Additional changes are listed in the
`CHANGELOG`_.

.. _CHANGELOG: https://github.com/warewulf/warewulf/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md

Provisioning to disk
====================

v4.6.2 includes a preview implementation of the ability to provision the node
image to a local disk. This includes the ability to provision disks earlier in
the boot process, primarily during the first phase of a two-phase boot using
dracut.

Disks may be provisioned using ``ignition``, as before; but may now also be
provisioned using new ``sfdisk``, ``mkfs``, and ``mkswap`` overlays, and to
mount configured file systems using ``systemd.mount`` and ``systemd.swap``
overlays. These overlays may also each be configured using overlay-specific
"resources", which may additional control compared to Warewulf's built-in disk,
partition, and file system configuration.

To support more complext partition layouts, ``wwctl <node|partition> set
--parttype`` has been added to specify non-default partition types. This is
particularly useful when creating an EFI partition, which may be used in a
future release to configure serverless local booting.

Finally, ``wwctl profile set`` has been fixed to now properly support
configuration of disks, partitions and file systems.

For more information, see the :ref:`provision to disk` section.

REST API
========

v4.6.2 continues development of the REST API, properly handling attempts to
create a node that already exists, and fetching uid, gid, and mode permissions
for overlay files. The previous gRPC-based API servers and client have also been
removed.

Other fixes
===========

- NetworkManager now waits for interfaces to come online before provisioning with Dracut.
- The ``udev.netname`` overlay now properly handles InfiniBand interfaces in more cases.
- Fixed a regression in SELinux support by restoring the ``/run`` mount during wwinit.
- GRUB now properly reports errors and reboots when an error occurs.
- Fixed IPMI VLAN configuration.
- Preserve existing permissions during ``wwctl overlay edit``.
- Fix CSV processing during ``wwctl node import --csv``.
