====================
v4.6.1 Release Notes
====================

v4.6.1 is a regularly-scheduled minor release in the v4.6.x series.

Significant changes are described below. Additional changes are listed in the
`CHANGELOG`_.

.. _CHANGELOG: https://github.com/warewulf/warewulf/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md

aarch64 packages
================

We're now building and publishing aarch64 packages with GitHub releases.

New REST API
============

Possibly the largest change in v4.6.1 is the addition of a new :ref:`REST API
<rest-api>`. This API is optionally served by ``warewulfd`` at ``/api``, and is
disabled by default.

Changed JSON output
===================

The REST API returns JSON, which has brought additional attention to the JSON
output previously only output by ``wwctl <node|profile> list --json``. This
output has been updated such that the JSON object properties match field names
used in ``nodes.conf``. JSON output also now omits empty or unspecified values.

New command-line options
========================

A couple new ``wwctl`` options have been added:

- ``wwctl overlay import --overwrite`` overwrites existing overlay files during
  import.
- ``wwctl node import --yes`` skips the interactive confirmaton dialog and
  assumes a "yes" answer.

New tags
========

A new ``vlan`` IPMI tag configures the IPMI interface to use the specified vlan
during ``ipmiwrite``.

.. code-block::

   wwctl profile set default --ipmitagadd=vlan=100

Customize wwclient connection to Warewulf server
================================================

In some circumstances (e.g., when isolating compute nodes from the provisioning
network) it may be useful for ``wwclient`` to connect to a different IP address
than the default Warewulf server address. To support this, ``wwclient`` will
connect to the address specified in the environment variable ``WW_IPADDR``, if
present.

This variable can be specified in ``/etc/default/wwclient`` with an overlay.

Distribution-specific fixes
===========================

Downstream SUSE packages have historically set a kernel argument
``net.ifnames=1`` to `enable predictable network interfaces`_. This argument is
now set in the initial ``nodes.conf`` and during ``wwctl upgrade nodes
--add-defaults``.

.. _enable predictable network interfaces: https://documentation.suse.com/smart/network/html/network-interface-predictable-naming/index.html

Upgrade fixes and default behaviors
===================================

v4.6.0 moved default settings from ``defaults.conf`` (and, before that,
compiled-in constants) with settings on the "default" profile in the initial
``nodes.conf``, and added ``wwctl upgrade nodes --add-defaults`` to add default
settings to an existing ``nodes.conf``. However, this removal of default
settings caused surprising deficiencies in some cases; and, in others
``--add-defaults`` simply failed to set proper defaults.

- ``wwctl upgrade nodes --add-defaults`` now sets a default iPXE template. If no
  default template is set, ``warewulfd`` looks for a template named "default".
- If no init is specified, ``wwinit`` now looks for ``/sbin/init``,
  ``/etc/init``, and ``/bin/init``.
- `wwctl upgrade nodes --replace-overlays` now avoids adding the same overlay
  multiple times to the same node or profile.
- If, during ``wwctl overlay build``, a node has an empty system or runtime
  overlay, a warning is printed.

Misc. bug fixes
===============

- Fixed a panic in ``warewulfd`` when a network device isn't configured
  explicitly on a node.
- ``wwctl <power|node console|node sensors>`` now better handles missing
  required IPMI fields.
- Field names containing periods (e.g., ``NetDev[eth0.100]``) are now displayed
  properly in ``wwctl <node|profile> list``.
- Properly quote a specified escape character during ``ipmitool`` commands.
- Update related nodes and profiles when renaming an image.
- ``wwctl <node|profile> set`` now properly handles "UNDEF" and "UNSET" to
  remove a defined field value.
- Configure the GRUB bootloader to sleep and reboot on certain errors (to allow
  error messages to be read).
- ``wwctl node import`` can now import new nodes, not just update existing
  nodes.
- Fixed a panic during ``wwctl node list --ipmi`` for nodes with no IPMI
  configuration.
- Fixed processing of ``--verbose`` and ``--debug`` when starting ``warewulfd``.
