====================
v4.6.3 Release Notes
====================

v4.6.3 is a regularly-scheduled minor release in the v4.6.x series.

Significant changes are described below. Additional changes are listed in the
`CHANGELOG`_.

.. _CHANGELOG: https://github.com/warewulf/warewulf/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md

REST API
========

v4.6.3 continues development of the REST API, adding support for the
``If-None-Match: *`` header to prevent overwriting an existing entity.

Other new functionality in the REST API includes:

- ``GET /api/nodes/{id}/overlays`` returns built time metadata for a node's
  system and runtime overlay images.
- ``PUT /api/overlays/{name}/file?path={path}`` creates files in overlays.
- ``DELETE /api/overlays/{name}/file?path={path}`` delete files in overlays.
- ``DELETE /api/overlays/{name}?force=true`` deletes overlays that are in use.

IPv6 Support
============

IPv6 is now supported during the iPXE network boot process, one step towards
improving overall IPv6 support.

Overlay Autobuild
=================

The Warewulf server (when "autobuild overlays" is enabled) now automatically
rebuilds overlays after node discovery, which resolves an issue where overlays
were out-of-sync with the newly-discovered configuration. This is one step in a
more general effort to imrpove overlay autobuild so that manual overlay builds
are less often required.

Warewulf server configuration
=============================

The ``wwctl configure`` command can now enable and (re)start the warewulf server
daemon itself to apply updated configuration, either as part of ``wwctl
configure -a`` or ``wwctl configure warewulfd``.

Ubuntu and Debian Support
=========================

The ``netplan`` overlay is now much more feature-complete, with relative parity
to the other network configuration overlays. This is one step in a more general
effort to support Wareewulf in Ubuntu and Debian environments.

Other fixes
===========

- Fixed ``wwctl upgrade nodes`` to properly handle kernel argument lists.
- Fixed a panic during ``wwctl overlay edit`` due to missing ``reexec.Init()``.
- Fixed handling of comma-separated mount options in ``fstab`` and ``ignition``
  overlays.
- Fixed a race condition in ``wwctl overlay edit`` that led to changes not being
  properly detected and applied.
