====================
v4.7.0 Release Notes
====================

v4.7.0 is a significant upgrade, with many changes relative to the v4.6.x
series.

Particularly significant changes, especially those affecting the user interface,
are described below. Additional changes are listed in the `CHANGELOG`_.

.. _CHANGELOG: https://github.com/warewulf/warewulf/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md

Running ``wwctl upgrade`` should be sufficient when upgrading from v4.6.x and
previous releases, but back up your configuration (``nodes.conf`` and
``warewulf.conf``) when upgrading.

Documentation
=============

The user documentation has received a substantial audit and update for
v4.7.0:

- An initial one-page quick reference guide.
- New documentation describing the status of various top-level Warewulf
  features.
- New documentation for the ``wwctl clean`` command.
- New documentation on reclaiming RAM by moving the image to swap.
- New documentation on configuring the ARP cache for large clusters.
- Expanded troubleshooting documentation for container runtimes.
- New documentation on detecting shadowed overlays.
- A new section on multiple-network server configurations, moved from
  getting-started to a dedicated server networking section.
- Audit and corrections to documentation, cobra help text, and log messages.
- Clarified functionality of ``syncuser`` commands and the ``syncuser``
  overlay.
- The documentation now distinguishes more clearly between OS images and overlay
  images.
- A new troubleshooting section describes how to detect shadowed overlays.

wwctl unset
===========

The ``wwctl set`` command was previously enhanced with automatic type-checking
to ensure that input field values were valid for their target field. However,
this broke the ability to unset some fields with a sentinel ``UNDEF`` value
(e.g., because ``UNDEF`` is not a valid IP address).

A new ``wwctl <node|profile> unset`` command provides explicit removal of
individual configuration fields, replacing the use of empty-string assignment
or ``--del`` flags on ``wwctl <node|profile> set``. The ``set`` and ``unset``
commands are now implemented in a unified fashion using cobra's
``cmd.Flags().Changed()`` to apply only explicitly-set fields.

``wwctl <node|profile> set --partdel`` and ``wwctl <node|profile> unset
--partname`` now scope partition deletion to a specific disk when
``--diskname`` is provided; without ``--diskname``, the partition is removed
from all disks (the previous behavior). A new ``--partwipe`` flag has also
been added to ``wwctl <node|profile> set``.

Refactored Server Routes
========================

The ``warewulfd`` HTTP API has been refactored to use a set of dedicated,
purpose-specific server routes in place of the previous
``/provision/{hwaddr}?stage=X`` interface. The new routes are:

- ``/ipxe/`` for iPXE scripts
- ``/kernel/`` for kernel images
- ``/image/`` for node images
- ``/initramfs/`` for initramfs images
- ``/system/`` for system overlays
- ``/runtime/`` for runtime overlays
- ``/grub/`` for GRUB configuration
- ``/efiboot/`` for EFI boot files

The iPXE, GRUB, and dracut boot scripts and templates have been updated to use
the new routes, and ``wwclient`` now uses the ``/runtime/`` route for runtime
overlay downloads. A new ``wwinit.server`` kernel parameter is used for
dracut/wwinit boot. (The previous ``wwinit.uri`` parameter, as well as the
``/provision/`` route, remains supported for backward compatibility.)

New Files Route
===============

A new ``/files/`` server route serves static files from the Warewulf files
directory (typically ``/var/lib/warewulf/files/``). The route supports optional
template rendering and an optional ``.ww`` suffix, allowing both raw and
template-rendered files to be served.

A new ``warewulf:secure files`` configuration option in ``warewulf.conf``
controls whether the ``/files/`` route requires requests from a privileged
port, independently of the global ``warewulf:secure`` setting.

TLS Support
===========

Warewulf v4.7.0 adds TLS support to ``warewulfd`` and the REST API. A new
``wwctl configure tls`` command generates and configures TLS keys and
certificates for the Warewulf server.

Removed Sub-Overlay Support
===========================

The ``/overlay-file/`` route, the ``?overlay=`` query parameter on ``/system/``
and ``/runtime/``, and the ``--overlay`` (``-O``) and ``--output`` (``-o``)
flags on ``wwctl overlay build`` have all been removed.

Internal gRPC Removal
=====================

The gRPC API libraries and protobuf types have been removed from Warewulf. The
node, profile, and image functions previously implemented via gRPC have been
refactored to use the same internal interfaces used by the REST API, simplifying
the codebase and reducing the number of dependencies.

Network Overlays
================

- New ``chrony`` overlay to configure ``chronyd``.

- The ``netplan`` overlay can now configure now emits default routes.

- The ``syncuser`` overlay now supports defining explicit local users and
  groups.

- A new ``mig`` overlay configures NVIDIA MIG devices.

- The ``hosts`` overlay has been added to the default system overlay list.

Template Functions and Whitespace
=================================

The ``{{ file }}``, ``{{ softlink }}``, and ``{{ ImportLink }}`` template
functions have been refactored to use state-based routing instead of sentinel
strings. Whitespace-trimming syntax (e.g., ``{{- file "name" -}}``) now
correctly creates all named files and symlinks.

Security
========

Multiple theoretical path-traversal vulnerabilities in overlay handling have
been fixed. (These vulnerabilities are not believed to have been exploitable,
but have been addressed as a matter of best practice.)

The ``assetkey`` field is no longer leaked into ``wwclient`` logs.

The minimum Go version has been increased to 1.25.5 to pick up multiple stdlib
CVE fixes, and many other library dependencies have been updated. See
`CHANGELOG`_ for the full list.

Development and CI
==================

- A new CI integration test provisions QEMU VMs via Warewulf on Rocky Linux
  10, with matrix builds adding SUSE Linux 16.0 (Leap) coverage.
- The userdocs CI job has been sped up.

Other Fixes
===========

- Include API configuration during ``wwctl upgrade config``.
- The ``comment`` field is no longer inherited from profiles by nodes.
- Fix the requisite dependency between the ignition disk target and the
  ignition service.
- Allow whitespace to be trimmed for ``wwdoc`` comments.
- Improved error handling for the ``/newroot`` mount during single-stage
  boot, and bugfixes for command-line arguments during single-stage image
  unpacking.
- Fixed incorrect help docs for ``wwctl overlay chown``.
- Raised the open file limit for the ``warewulfd`` service to match systemd
  precedence.
- A missing ``goto`` has been added to ``default.ipxe`` to fix an iPXE menu
  fallthrough bug.
- The Warewulf REST API now returns HTTP 409 when attempting to create an
  overlay that already exists.
- Runtime overlay download failure during dracut/wwinit boot is now non-fatal:
  the node continues to boot and ``wwclient`` retries the download at runtime.
